---
layout: posts
title: Test Driven Development Briefly Discovered
subtitle: 
categories:	blogs
---
Development can seem like such a vast ocean, where languages go with the current, and processes seem to change at every second. It might seem extremely overwhelming, but development doesn't have to be so chaotic. Each language has its own structure to help, but lets talk about Test Driven Development.

Imagine building a house. We obviously need to make sure the ground is stable, lay the concrete, build the foundation and etc. When we are ready to build the structure, we dont use random parts. The wood, metals etc are careful tested and precicely measured in order to assure the stability of hte building. You wouldn't just pick up wood that looks good, but uknownly can easily deteriorate. Alright, so this example might not be the strongest, but the same basic concepts must exist for Test Driven Development. Test Driven Development requires that development is structured around pre written testing.

The pre written tests used with Test Driven Development act as the blueprint, helping to create a structure that development will follow. The basic process for test driven development is as follows:

Write the tests from a User Story / Psuedocode
Test that the test works
Write code to pass the test
Refactor the code and check that it passes the test
There are several benefits of test driven development - some of which help create a clean structure. TDD ensures that developers keep each unit small - so each class or specific segment of code is smalle and specific. These initial benefits will carry over as the developmental platform gets bigger and more complex. Additionally, test driven development can help determine developmental design. It ensures that as development grows, things will stay neat and ordered, and we dont have to worry about an ocean of chaos.