---
layout: posts
title: Github and...Play-Doh?
subtitle: Dedicated to the blue Play-Doh I loved to eat.
categories:	blogs
---

Play-Doh. Weird feeling, malleable, and cold, Play-doh infinitesimally fed the imagination. Like legos, Play-Doh was amongst the greatest hands on inventions of my childhood universe. It was non stop; the molding, mashing, building, sometimes eating, and always growing playtime. The greatest thing about Play-Doh was the very fact that I could sculpture anything I wanted. It didn't need to fit into other pieces, didn’t need to be a certain shape, nor did it need to even make sense. All that mattered was pushing it onto the next piece, and continuously marvel at my ever growing creation.

Though the constant growing was incredibly fun, I cannot say it was always easy. There were always times when building, that I would realize that I messed up the next part of my sculpting. I was however okay, thanks to my ingenious idea to color code my Play-Doh build. With this methodology, I could understand that I needed to go back to that color and make it stronger to re-support the next piece.

Much like color coding Play-Doh, version control is the greatest invention of the adult development universe. With version control and development, developers are able to always track code and files (different color Play-Doh!). Developers can always return to bits of earlier code to refactor, refresh, renew, or rebuild and change direction of a project. This system is crucial when working on projects alone, and or building with a team.

Much like your hands that do the sculpting, Git is a form of version control for development. This tool helps to keep track of changes with various commands and messages that go with each phase of the build, again much like a different color of Play-Doh. Developers can add bits of code to an overall project and leave a message, creating a notable point of when something was added to help the tracking process.

Now, if I had to build a Play-Doh version of the Roman Empire in great detail, that would probably take a very long time to do on my own. Wouldn't it be great to get some help, but also get noticeable credit for my contributions? Github is an online repository where code lives and breathes, being shared among developers to further projects. It is in this cloud that developers can help on bigger builds, as well as take accountability via git's tracking as the project continues.

Now, rather than build Rome with Play-Doh, its time to build incredible apps with Git.