---
layout: posts
title: Understanding How To Think, Learn, and Process
subtitle: Not so easy after all
categories:	blogs
---
We made it: 3 completed weeks! But what did these 3 weeks mean? I can't say I learned a lot, because most of this is more of a refresher to me. But that is not at all to discredit anything we have done. I did learn new methods for Ruby, and new ways to tackle specific problems - but I feel these 3 weeks were a chance to learn something more. Though these have been a great refresher on all the content, I've actually learned about how I think, process, and do.

It's not easy just learning how to change the way we think, to how computers think. We need to understand how to tell them what to do, and that requires us learning how to do that ourselves. From our Gregorc Thinking Style, I have come to find that I do indeed match an Abstract Random Thinker. I love bringing harmony to group situations and especially establishing good relationships with others. Its important to me in life to be fair and equal, and give and take as much as you want from others. At the same time, I do realize its difficult to work with restrictive environments and persons, as well as accepting any criticism. My natural reflex is to look at it as a failure versus an opportunity to improve. My qualities definitely are on par with my thinking style, but I need to adapt how I feel and process in order to improve how I think.

Just like everything challenging I've experienced, thats easier said than done.. My favorite part of preparing for this program and my future was really analyzing how my mindset is. Though this can be seen as thinking/learning style, its also how I perceive things around me. I feel my focus relates to a growth mindset, which I see as an advantage to adapting when moving forward. That being said, I have to do a better job of understanding that failure isnt failure, rather just an obstacle. Yeah, pretty common saying, but truly adapting to understand that is the next step of my personal evolution. To be honest, I'm not sure I have a fully solid plan on how to combat some difficulties with how I think, I can at the very least understand and be specific about them - and to me thats a step forward. I feel once we continue to progress in the difficulty of the material, I need to accept the difficulty it may bring with my peers via pairing, and myself, and really make an effort to not allow those reflexes to take over.