---
layout: posts
title: Conflicts
subtitle: 
categories:	blogs
---
We've all had those moments where emotion gets the better of us. We sometimes resort to instinct, which could be detrimental to fixing that conflict. What matters more than how the conflict happened is how we chose to deal with it.

I spent some time in my college years learning about basic technology and working as tech support. My position was exciting, since I was working in server, network, web, and other types of support and getting to learn a lot. My first, real incident was a failure of communication with a co worker. One of the our clients had called, and needed help on a bigger project. Since we all wore many hats, and I was new to learning a lot of these processes, I never felt comfortable handling the bigger projects on my own, but was sometimes forced to with the lack of time and help.

As I ran through my checklist and made sure that this project was handled, I became more confident with my ability to take on bigger tasks. I left the project, which I thought was finished, and returned to our qeue to take on the next task. When I walked in my office, my coworkers was on the phone with the client, only to discuss how the project was incomplete. Rather thank talk direclty to me, my coworker decided to turn to our manager, and state that I failed to complete the task. I was furious that he threw me under the bus. A plethora of thoughts came into my head: I know I completed the task, why did he throw me under the bus? Why did he not stand up for me and get more clarification from the client? Was there something I missed?

I then confronted my coworker, but as I was doing so, I realized how I felt and decided to breathe. I asked him what happened, and to clarify everything. It was only then that we realized this was a specific case for this type of project, and not in my scope of skill and understanding - so something I would not have known to check for. I was obviously extremely upset - this made me look bad, and my quality of work and commitment look just as bad. I could have handled this very poorly, but I knew I had to get my point across.

After meeting as a team, it was understood that communication was not complete in this situation, and so the blame was not placed on me. I wasn't worried so much as to where the blame went, but didn't appreciate being treated that way with not understand the whole process. I definitely learned that communication is key, in all situations. I'm glad I calmed down and handled it the way I did, otherwise it could have been a completely different outcome.