---
layout: posts
title: Two Is Better Than One
subtitle: 
categories:	blogs
---
"Teamwork is the ability to work together toward a common vision. The ability to direct individual accomplishments toward organizational objectives. It is the fuel that allows common people to attain uncommon results." --Andrew Carnegie. Teamwork is an awesome feature of development today. I think its incredible how different perspectives and skills can help solve the same issue in very different and complimentary ways. Building with someone else isn't always the easiest thing to do, but can be the most rewarding.

Pairing at DBC has been an overall great experience. To be honest, one of my greatest fears through this program was to be less knowledgeable than my pair, consistently chasing them with the problem at hand. It has been relieving to see that the dynamic of the pair program does not allow for that, and we both work together to teach each other how to move forward. Pairing is awesome because I am learning from working with others, and observing different methodologies to tackle the same problem. It has been rewarding for me to lead and teach, as well as observe and listen, all within the same amount of time. I can't say that anything has frustrated me - the DBC team is incredible to work with.

Though I have my own concepts and thoughts about pairing with others, feedback is how I can measure how they feel about me. When I read my feedback, it feels really good to see that I am in fact bringing more to the table than I expected. Its actually a relief that what I feared is not present during my pairing sessions. The feedback has also helped me realize that I may need to think about things differently to solve and help progress on a problem. I am going to/have been working on tackling this, since a changing mindset is a better way to learn and grow.

Writing feedback has been more difficult than expected. Its okay to give specific feedback, but difficult to be constructive. Everyone is on the same boat, in the same kitchen learning at the same pace. Knowing this, constructive feedback is usually persistent across most of my pairs.

Regardless of any short comings when providing feedback, the pairing feedback dynamic has been the best help at DBC. I love that we are on a team, rather than just thrown together forcibly. It has been a great asset to my learning, but more so to my mindset.